---
title: Homework
author: Chris Agrella
date: 09/01/2021
output: pdf_document
---

## Analyzing Functions with Limits

### Question 15

- Base Question:

  - \(\frac{3x^2+2x}{4x^3-5x+7}\)

- Divide each term by highest power of \(x\)
  - \(\frac{\frac{3x^2}{x^3} + \frac{2x}{x^3}}
    {\frac{4x^3}{x^3} - \frac{5x}{x^3} + \frac{7}{x^3}}\)
  - Simplify
  - \(\frac{\frac{3}{x}+\frac{2}{x^2}}{4 - \frac{5}{x^2} + \frac{7}{x^3}}\)

- Find the limit of each term according to \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} \)
  
  - Any term with x in denominator approaches 0 since n/x infinitely increases denominator.
  - \(\frac{0 + 0}{4 - 0 - 0}\)
  - \(\frac{0}{4}\)
  - \(L = 0\)

- Horizontal asymptote at \(y = 0\)

- \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} f(x) = 0\)

### Question 16

- Base Question: \(\frac{3x^2+2x}{x+2}\)

- \(\frac{3 + \frac{2}{x}}{\frac{1}{x} + \frac{2}{x^2}}\)

- \(\frac{3 + 0}{0 + 0}\), \(\frac{3}{0}\) is undefined.

- Numerator has higher degree than denominator, so there is no asymptote

> Can always graph it.

- \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} f(x) \rightarrow \infty\), therefore does not exist.

> unbounded: increases to \(\infty\) or decreases to \(-\infty\)

### Question 17

- \(\frac{(e^x)^3}{x^3 + 1}\)

- \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 3} f(x)\) is undefined as it is unbounded.

> Dominant Function: The function which gets bigger faster. If the dominant function is in the numerator, limit goes to \(\infty\) and the limit does not exist.

### Question 18

- \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} \frac{\ln x}{10^x}\)

> Dominant function is in the denominator, which means the limit approaches 0.

- \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} \frac{\ln x}{10^x} = 0\)

## Textbook Math

### Question 143

1. Stage 1) Function exists at \(f(0)\)
2. Stage 2) Limit from the left and from the right match
    - \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 0^-} f(x) = -1\)
    - \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 0^+} f(x) = -1\)

3. Stage 3) Value of function matches value of limit

- \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 0} f(0) = -1 = f(0)\), therefore \(f(x)\) is continuous at \(x = 0\)

Function is continuous.

### Question 147

\(\frac{(x+2)(x+1)}{x+2}\)


\(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow -2} f(x) = -1\)

Hole at x = -2, approaches -1

\(k = -1\)
