# Calc 08/19/2021

Investigation
=============
__Graphs & Curves - Race car document__

Speed
-----
The rate of a graph is very important. 

Curves
------
The way you change direction calculus is very important.
Smooth turn (parabola/hyperbola/waves) vs sharp curve (piecewise)

> "Letting you see different ways things can change"

Important Graph Things
----------------------
Straight lines have a __constant__ rate of change.

__Rate__ has __direction__ on graphs.

Graph A & B have a __positive__ rate of change while Graph C has a __negative__ rate of change. (Row one)

Row 2 have differing __rates of change__ (Not constant)
> "Rate of change is changing throughout the graph"

Things to think about
---------------------
> "Graph turns and rate of change is 0"

Flat, horizontal line is 0 rate of change, no movement.

Assignment
==========
__Q3 on Race Car__

1. 20 ft/s at 15s into the event.
2. We all got similar speeds but it is probably an under acceleration due to the car constantly accelerating.
3. You could find the speed at 14.5s at 15.5s to find a closer approximation to 15 using the equation to find more accurate values.
4. Slope of 14-15s is 38.67 ft/s, Slope of 15-16s is 41.33 ft/s, Slope of 14-16s is __40 ft/s__ which is a better value since it goes through 15s.
5. All of the new speeds are greater than the speeds from part A. We can have greater confidence because we are using more values to compute our answers, as well as exact values since they are from teh equation. Also, the average of 14-15s and 15-16s match the value of the speed from 14s to 16s.

Assignment Notes
----------------

> Slope of a secant line is M (sub sec)

Formula is (y2 - y2)/(x2 - x1). Symbol for Change is delta (Δ)

We want the __slope of the tangent line__. Very hard to do unless we have the equation.

> m,tan = (d(t) - d(a))/(t - a) == dΔ/tΔ

Overall equation for the approaching zero.
> m,tan = (d(t+h) - d(t))/(h), -> 0

Homework
========
on calendar