---
title: Calc Notes
author: Chris Agrella
date: 08/25/2021
output: pdf_document

---

Analyzing Functions with Limits
===============================

[Questions 1&2](../../../homework/2021/08/2021.08.24-limits.md)

Limit of \(f(c)\) :
-------------------

\[\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 1^+} f(x) \rightarrow \infty\]


- Limits describe the values of the function as they approach a certain number x from either the right, the left, or both sides (if no signs are provided.)

- Limits are concerned with the values of the function as it approached the value (in this case 1 from the right)


- The limit \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 1} \dfrac{1}{x-1}\) does not exist because \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 1} \dfrac{1}{x-1}\) is unbounded on both sides of \(x = 1\).


With limits you are
- Looking at y-values
- Looking for a __real number__ (not infinity)
- Looking on both sides.

Limit of \(g(c)\):
------------------

- Does the limit exist? __Yes__
- Why? \(\lim\limits_{c \rightarrow 1^+} g(c) = \lim\limits_{c \rightarrow 1^-} g(c)\)
- What's the value? \(\lim\limits_{x\rightarrow1} g(c) = 2\)
- \(x = 1\) is a vertical asymptote

Questions
---------

- What is the limit as \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 2} \dfrac{1}{x-1}\)?
    
    \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 2} \dfrac{1}{x-1} = 1\)
    - 2 is a real number
    - The function approaches \(y = 1\) as \(x = 2\)


- For the minimum of a parabola, is the limit defined?
    - Equation: \(f(x) = x^2\)
    - Limit: \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 0} f(x) \rightarrow 0\)

Graphical Limits Questions
--------------------------

- Does the limit exist at \(x = 11\)?
    - \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 11^+} f(x) \neq \lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 11^-} f(x)\)
    - \(\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 11} f(x)\) does not exist because they do not converge to the same point.

- What about the dots? The limit can have a value that does not match the value of the function.

- Instantaneous Rate of Change at \(x = a\)
    - \(\lim\limits_{h \rightarrow} \dfrac{f(a+h) - f(a)}{h}\)


Analytical Limits
-----------------

Need to use Algebra to solve.

\[\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 3} \dfrac{x^2 - x - 6}{x^2 - 9}\]

Indeterminate Form?
\[\dfrac{(3^2 - 3 - 6)}{3^2 - 9} = \dfrac{0}{0}\]

Factored:
- \(\dfrac{(x-3)(x+2)}{(x+3)(x-3)}\)
- \(\dfrac{x+2}{x+3}\)

Plug in \(x = 3\):
- \(\dfrac{3 + 2}{3 + 3}\)
- \(\dfrac{5}{6}\)


Limits and Local Linerality
---------------------------

- Are they related? Yes. Blank page for now.


Homework
========

3-4 questions in Homework document.